doc: add warnings about transferring Buffers and ArrayBuffer (#33252)
nodejs/node: doc/api/worker_threads.md

the raw data while the `TypedArray` and `Buffer` objects provide a
way of viewing and manipulating the data. It is possible and common
for multiple views to be created over the same `ArrayBuffer` instance.
Great care must be taken when using a transfer list to transfer an
`ArrayBuffer` as doing so will cause all `TypedArray` and `Buffer`
instances that share that same `ArrayBuffer` to become unusable.

```js
const ab = new ArrayBuffer(10);

const u1 = new Uint8Array(ab);
const u2 = new Uint16Array(ab);

console.log(u2.length);  // prints 5

port.postMessage(u1, [u1.buffer]);

console.log(u2.length);  // prints 0
```

For `Buffer` instances, specifically, whether the underlying
`ArrayBuffer` can be transferred or cloned depends entirely on how
instances were created, which often cannot be reliably determined.

Depending on how a `Buffer` instance was created, it may or may
not own its underlying `ArrayBuffer`. An `ArrayBuffer` must not
be transferred unless it is known that the `Buffer` instance
owns it. In particular, for `Buffer`s created from the internal
`Buffer` pool (using, for instance `Buffer.from()` or `Buffer.alloc()`),

> transferring them is not possible and they will always be cloned
> -- which includes sending a copy of the entire `Buffer` pool along
> with them. This behavior may come with unintended higher memory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
transferring them is not possible and they will always be cloned,
which sends a copy of the entire `Buffer` pool.
This behavior may come with unintended higher memory
```

usage and possible security concerns.

See [`Buffer.allocUnsafe()`][] for more details on `Buffer` pooling.

The `ArrayBuffer`s for `Buffer` instances created using

> `Buffer.alloc()` or `Buffer.allocUnsafeSlow()` can always be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Buffer.allocUnsafe()` or `Buffer.allocUnsafeSlow()` can always be
```

?

For more information on the serialization and deserialization mechanisms
behind this API, see the [serialization API of the `v8` module][v8.serdes].

#### Considerations when transferring TypedArrays and Buffers

All `TypedArray` and `Buffer` instances are views over an underlying
`ArrayBuffer`. That is, it is the `ArrayBuffer` that actually stores
the raw data while the `TypedArray` and `Buffer` objects provide a
way of viewing and manipulating the data. It is possible and common
for multiple views to be created over the same `ArrayBuffer` instance.

For example,

```js
const ab = new ArrayBuffer(10);

// Both TypedArrays share the same underlying state.
const u1 = new Uint8Array(ab);
const u2 = new Uint16Array(ab);

// Changing one, changes the other
u1[1] = 1;

console.log(u2[0]);  // prints 256

> ```

Reviewer 3: I think this example can be dropped, if we’re focusing on `MessagePort` here

Author: I'm ok with dropping it but originally included it to ensure that the reasons *why* transferring these things are unsafe. I could include this example back in the buffer.md docs but that would mean users would have to jump across multiple docs to get the full story.

Reviewer 3: I mean, yeah, but if the idea is to warn about these things in multiple docs, then I’d prefer to document the shared bits in a single place, even if that means linking to multiple docs.

(Or just document it all in the buffer doc, possibly in various sections for the different use cases, and link to that from here.)

Great care must be taken when using a transfer list to transfer an
`ArrayBuffer` as doing so may cause all `TypedArray` and `Buffer`
instances that share that same `ArrayBuffer` to become unusable.

```js
const ab = new ArrayBuffer(10);

const u1 = new Uint8Array(ab);
const u2 = new Uint16Array(ab);

port.postMessage(u1, [u1.buffer]);

console.log(u2.length);  // prints 0
```

> For `Buffer` instances, specifically, whether the `Buffer` can be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For `Buffer` instances, specifically, whether the underlying `ArrayBuffer` can be
```

safely transferred depends entirely on how instances were created,
which often cannot be reliably determined.

> Node.js will create `Buffer` instances with data backed by either
> a shared pre-allocated pool (that is, a common `ArrayBuffer`), or
> with their own dedicated `ArrayBuffer` instance. In addition to
> using the JavaScript `Buffer.from()`, `Buffer.alloc()`, and
> `Buffer.allocUnsafe()` methods to create `Buffer` instances, Node.js
> uses other mechanisms at the native C++ level to create `Buffer`
> instances over memory regions that may be allocated and accessed
> independently of the `Buffer`. The point is, whenever JavaScript
> code is using a `Buffer` instance, the exact ownership over the
> underlying data, along with whatever other code may be using or
> relying on that data, may not be completely clear. Transferring
> such objects can be dangerous and can lead to undefined behavior
> or even crash the Node.js process.
> 
> Further, `Buffer` instances created using either `Buffer.from()` or
> `Buffer.allocUnsafe()` will *always* be cloned and will never be
> transferred. However, because those are created from the
> underlying shared pre-allocation pool, sending these `Buffer`
> instances will cause the *entire* pre-allocation pool to also
> be cloned, potentially leading to higher unintended memory use,
> memory leaks and possible security issues.
> 
> Because of these issues, unless a `Buffer` instance is definitely
> known to be safe, it is best to avoid transferring `Buffer` objects
> at all.
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Depending on how a `Buffer` instance was created, it may or may not
own its underlying `ArrayBuffer`. An `ArrayBuffer` must not be
transferred unless it is known that the `Buffer` instance owns its underlying
`ArrayBuffer`. In particular, for `Buffer`s created from the internal `Buffer`
pool, transferring them is not possible for that reason, and they will
always be cloned, which includes sending a copy of the entire `Buffer`
pool with them. This behavior may come with unintended higher
memory usage.

See [`Buffer.allocUnsafe()`][] for more details on `Buffer` pooling.

The `ArrayBuffer`s for `Buffer`s instances created using
`Buffer.alloc()` or `Buffer.allocUnsafeSlow()` can always safely be
transferred if no other views of those `ArrayBuffer`s have been created.
```
